Value and Momentum Everywhere Important Notice: Fraudulent Schemes Impersonating AQR Capital Management, LLC and Affiliates (collectively, "AQR") Important Notice: Fraudulent Schemes Impersonating AQR More Info There have been recent incidents of individuals and groups falsely claiming to be associated with AQR on social media platforms. These imposters have engaged in a variety of unauthorized conduct, including soliciting customers to carry out trading activities with them, impersonating AQR using the genuine names of AQR senior executives or employees to offer investment opportunities, claiming to offer investment training courses that are supposedly provided by AQR or claiming that AQR is backing certain initial coin offerings or is otherwise engaged in crypto related trading activity. There have also been fake websites and mobile applications that claim to be AQR (or associated with AQR) when in fact they are not. These are scams and not authorized by AQR in any way. Please be aware that AQR does not engage in any investment activities, provide training or financial services, or conduct other regulated activities through social media platforms or messaging apps. Similarly, AQR, its executives and employees do  not contact prospects, clients or members of the public via social media platforms or messaging apps such as WhatsApp, Discord and Telegram to offer investment opportunities. AQR does not offer direct investments in cryptocurrencies or other digital assets, it does not provide a trading platform to members of the public, it does not have a mobile app, and it does not offer investment training courses to the public. AQR and its partners, employees, directors, officers, advisors, successors, and agents are not responsible for any conduct by unauthorized parties and channels, nor are they responsible for the services or information provided by such unauthorized parties and channels. If you have any questions or wish to ascertain whether you are communicating with an authorized representative of AQR, please contact us at https://www.aqr.com/Contact-Us . If you believe that you or someone you know has been a victim of fraud, please report the matter to your local law enforcement or other relevant authorities. For India residents, you may lodge a report at the national cybercrime reporting portal ( https://cybercrime.gov.in ). MyAQR Education Research Cliff's Perspectives Alternative Thinking Tax Matters Data Sets Quick Takes Learning Center Subscribe What We Do Our Approach Alternatives Equities Tax-Aware US Mutual Funds Australia Funds Flex UCITS Funds US Mutual Funds Australia Funds Flex UCITS Funds Our Firm About Us Leadership Careers Contact Us MyAQR Log In Register Contact Us Momentum Value and Momentum Everywhere June 1, 2013 - Cliff Asness Tobias J. Moskowitz Lasse H. Pedersen Topics - Momentum Value Factor/Style Investing ${ numberSection } ${ text } Value and Momentum Everywhere We find consistent value and momentum return premia across eight diverse markets and asset classes, and a strong common factor structure among their returns. Value and momentum returns correlate more strongly across asset classes than passive exposures to the asset classes, but value and momentum are negatively correlated with each other, both within and across asset classes. Our results indicate the presence of common global risks that we characterize with a three-factor model that describes a new set of 48 global across-asset-class test assets, the Fama–French portfolios and a variety of hedge fund indices. Global funding liquidity risk is a partial source of these patterns, which are identifiable only when examining value and momentum jointly across markets. Our findings present a challenge to existing behavioral, institutional and rational asset pricing theories that largely focus on U.S. equities. The strong correlation structure among value and momentum strategies across such diverse asset classes is difficult to reconcile under existing behavioral theories, for example. The high return premium and Sharpe ratio of a global across-asset-class diversified value and momentum portfolio presents an even more daunting hurdle for rational risk-based models to accommodate than the traditional approach of considering either value or momentum separately in a single asset market. In further investigating the underlying economic sources driving value and momentum returns, we hope our simple three-factor framework can be useful for future research that is becoming increasingly concerned with pricing global assets across markets. Research Journal Article Published in The Journal of Finance View Related Thinking Fact, Fiction and Momentum Investing Journal Article - September 30, 2014 The Interaction of Value and Momentum Strategies Journal Article - March 1, 1997 Data Sets Value and Momentum Everywhere: Portfolios, Monthly June 30, 2026 Value and Momentum Everywhere: Factors, Monthly June 30, 2026 Value and Momentum Everywhere: Original Paper Data February 27, 2018 This document is not intended to, and does not relate specifically to any investment strategy or product that AQR offers. It is being provided merely to provide a framework to assist in the implementation of an investor’s own analysis and an investor’s own view on the topic discussed herein. This document has been provided to you solely for information purposes and does not constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer or any advice or recommendation to purchase any securities or other financial instruments and may not be construed as such. The factual information set forth herein has been obtained or derived from sources believed by the author and AQR Capital Management, LLC (“AQR”) to be reliable but it is not necessarily all-inclusive and is not guaranteed as to its accuracy and is not to be regarded as a representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the information’s accuracy or completeness, nor should the attached information serve as the basis of any investment decision. This document is not to be reproduced or redistributed to any other person. The information set forth herein has been provided to you as secondary information and should not be the primary source for any investment or allocation decision. Past performance is not a guarantee of future performance. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses. This material is not research and should not be treated as research. This paper does not represent valuation judgments with respect to any financial instrument, issuer, security or sector that may be described or referenced herein and does not represent a formal or official view of AQR. The views expressed reflect the current views as of the date hereof and neither the author nor AQR undertakes to advise you of any changes in the views expressed herein. The information contained herein is only as current as of the date indicated, and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. Charts and graphs provided herein are for illustrative purposes only. The information in this presentation has been developed internally and/or obtained from sources believed to be reliable; however, neither AQR nor the author guarantees the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of such information. Nothing contained herein constitutes investment, legal, tax or other advice nor is it to be relied on in making an investment or other decision. There can be no assurance that an investment strategy will be successful. Historic market trends are not reliable indicators of actual future market behavior or future performance of any particular investment which may differ materially, and should not be relied upon as such. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses. The information in this paper may contain projections or other forward-looking statements regarding future events, targets, forecasts or expectations regarding the strategies described herein, and is only current as of the date indicated. There is no assurance that such events or targets will be achieved, and may be significantly different from that shown here. The information in this document, including statements concerning financial market trends, is based on current market conditions, which will fluctuate and may be superseded by subsequent market events or for other reasons. Education Research Cliff's Perspectives Alternative Thinking Tax Matters Data Sets Quick Takes Learning Center Subscribe What We Do Our Approach Alternatives Equities Tax-Aware Our Firm About Us Leadership Careers News Contact Us MyAQR Log In Register Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Social Media Disclaimers Terms of Use Disability Accommodation for Applicants Form CRS Equal Opportunity Employer ©2026 AQR Capital Management, LLC. All rights reserved. You are now leaving AQR.com AQR Capital Management, LLC, (“AQR”) provides links to third-party websites only as a convenience, and the inclusion of such links does not imply any endorsement, approval, investigation, verification or monitoring by us of any content or information contained within or accessible from the linked sites. If you choose to visit the linked sites, you do so at your own risk, and you will be subject to such sites' terms of use and privacy policies, over which AQR.com has no control. In no event will AQR be responsible for any information or content within the linked sites or your use of the linked sites. Cancel Proceed You are now leaving AQR.com You are about to leave AQR.com and are being re-directed to the {siteName}. Please note that {siteName} site may be subject to rules and regulations that may differ significantly from those to which the AQR website is subject and may not be appropriate for use by residents in all jurisdictions.  Your access to and use of the {siteName} site will be subject to the applicable Terms of Use posted on the site. Cancel Proceed