 AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund - AQMIX Strategies needs to be provided after the --> All Strategies Fund Finder Fund Performance Fund Documents Tax Documents Insights needs to be provided after the --> Understanding Active Extension Understanding Factor Investing Understanding Fusion Understanding Liquid Alternatives Download Liquid Alts Roundup Fund News About Us MyAQR needs to be provided after the --> Login Register Manage My Subscriptions AQR logo Close menu AQR FUNDS AQR.com needs to be provided after the --> menu needs to be provided after the --> AQR logo Strategies needs to be provided after the --> All Strategies Fund Finder Fund Performance Fund Documents Tax Documents Insights needs to be provided after the --> Understanding Active Extension Understanding Factor Investing Understanding Fusion Understanding Liquid Alternatives Download Liquid Alts Roundup Fund News About Us Search Search show search box MyAQR Login Register Manage My Subscriptions AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund Share Class: I Share Class I N R6 AQMIX Quick Links Fact Sheet daily nav $11.00 change $0.02 daily return 0.18% inception date 1/5/2010 AUM $3553MM As of September 08, 2026 Subscribe Add to Favorite share on twitter share with linked in share by email ABOUT THE FUND PORTFOLIO CHARACTERISTICS PERFORMANCE MANAGERS FEES & MINIMUMS DOCUMENTS needs to be provided after the --> About the Fund Investment Objective Seeks positive absolute returns. Fund Overview The Fund invests long and short in liquid futures and other instruments across global equities, fixed income, currencies, and commodities markets. Positions are based on proprietary signals that aim to go long markets with positive trends and short markets with falling trends. Why Invest in the AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund? Comprehensive Trend Following Unlike conventional approaches, the Fund combines insights from both price trends and economic trends when building positions. Strategy Breadth The Fund trades a diverse portfolio of several hundred futures-related instruments across global asset classes, including in alternative markets. Opportunity to Perform in Up and Down Markets By going long assets with favorable trends, and short assets with bearish trends, the Fund seeks to benefit from both up and down movements in prices. needs to be provided after the --> Portfolio Characteristics Portfolio Statistics As of June 30, 2026 {{ table name/description (cms controlled, not shown used by assistive technologies) }} # of long holdings 847 # of short holdings 934 Realized Beta Since Inception to S&P 500 -0.13 Realized Since Inception Volatility 9.96% Realized Since Inception Sharpe Ratio 0.26 Risk Allocation by Asset Class As of June 30, 2026 {{ table name/description (cms controlled, not shown used by assistive technologies) }} Equities 28.39% Fixed Income 21.16% Currencies 21.54% Commodities 28.91% Total 100.00% All Fund statistics are subject to change and should not be considered a recommendation to buy or sell securities. Risk allocations are calculated by dividing estimated asset class volatility by the sum of all asset class volatilities. Volatility and Beta are calculated using three-day overlapping returns. needs to be provided after the --> Performance Annualized Total Returns Month End Quarter End Month End Quarter End As of August 31, 2026 MTD YTD 1YR 3YR 5YR 10YR Since Inception (1/5/2010) Gross Expense Ratio Net Expense Ratio* Adjusted Expense Ratio* , ** AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund 2.17% 12.96% 23.00% 11.75% 14.49% 4.88% 4.24% 3.09% 3.09% 1.25% ICE BofA US 3M T-Bill Index 0.28% 2.37% 3.71% 4.56% 3.65% 2.40% 1.47% AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund ICE BofA US 3M T-Bill Index MTD 2.17% 0.28% YTD 12.96% 2.37% 1YR 23.00% 3.71% 3YR 11.75% 4.56% 5YR 14.49% 3.65% 10YR 4.88% 2.40% Since Inception 1/5/2010 4.24% 1.47% Gross Expense Ratio 3.09% Net Expense Ratio* 3.09% Adjusted Expense Ratio* , ** 1.25% As of June 30, 2026 QTD YTD 1YR 3YR 5YR 10YR Since Inception (1/5/2010) Gross Expense Ratio Net Expense Ratio* Adjusted Expense Ratio* , ** AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund -0.48% 9.20% 21.33% 10.74% 12.78% 4.27% 4.07% 3.09% 3.09% 1.25% ICE BofA US 3M T-Bill Index 0.89% 1.74% 3.84% 4.64% 3.52% 2.34% 1.45% AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund ICE BofA US 3M T-Bill Index QTD -0.48% 0.89% YTD 9.20% 1.74% 1YR 21.33% 3.84% 3YR 10.74% 4.64% 5YR 12.78% 3.52% 10YR 4.27% 2.34% Since Inception 1/5/2010 4.07% 1.45% Gross Expense Ratio 3.09% Net Expense Ratio* 3.09% Adjusted Expense Ratio* , ** 1.25% The performance data quoted represents past performance. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investment returns and principal value of an investment will fluctuate so that an investor’s shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost. Current performance may be lower or higher than the performance data quoted. Call 1-866-290-2688 or visit www.aqrfunds.com for current month-end performance. Source: AQR, JP Morgan. All returns for periods longer than a year are annualized. Benchmark is represented by ICE BofA U.S. 3-Month Treasury Bill Index. Indices are unmanaged, and one cannot invest in an index. See Disclosures for definitions. *AQR Capital Management, LLC ("AQR" or the "Adviser") has contractually agreed to reimburse operating expenses of the Fund at least through April 30, 2027. The Expense Limitation Agreement may be terminated with the consent of the Board of Trustees. **Reflects the Net Expense Ratio adjusted for certain investment related expenses, such as interest expense from borrowings and repurchase agreements and dividend expense from investments on short sales, incurred directly by the Fund. needs to be provided after the --> Managers Cliff Asness, Ph.D. Managing & Founding Principal Ph.D., M.B.A., University of Chicago B.S., B.S., University of Pennsylvania John M. Liew, Ph.D. Founding Principal Ph.D., M.B.A., University of Chicago B.A., University of Chicago Jordan Brooks, Ph.D. Principal Ph.D., M.A., New York University B.A. Boston College John J. Huss Principal S.B., Massachusetts Institute of Technology Erik Stamelos Managing Director A.B., Harvard University Fred Liu Executive Director M.S., Cornell University B.B.A., University of Texas - Austin James Lofton Managing Director B.A., B.S., University of Pennsylvania needs to be provided after the --> Fees & Minimums Investment Minimums {{ table name/description (cms controlled, not shown used by assistive technologies) }} Individual Investors $5 Million Institutional Investors None Accounts Offered by Financial Advisors None Shareholder Fees {{ table name/description (cms controlled, not shown used by assistive technologies) }} Sales Load None Deferred Sales Load None Redemption Fees None Annual Fund Operating Expenses {{ table name/description (cms controlled, not shown used by assistive technologies) }} Management Fee 1.05% Distribution (12b-1) Fee None Other Expenses Dividends On Short Sales and/or Interest Expense 1.84% All Other Expenses 0.19% Acquired Fund Fees 0.01% Gross Expenses 3.09% Less: Expense Reimbursements 0.00% Net Expenses* 3.09% Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses reflect the expenses incurred indirectly by the Fund as a result of the Fund's investments in underlying money market mutual funds, exchange-traded funds or other pooled investment vehicles. * As stated in the prospectus, the Adviser has contractually agreed to reimburse operating expenses of the Fund in an amount sufficient to limit certain Specified Expenses in the table above at no more than 0.25% for Class I Shares at least through April 30, 2027. "Specified Expenses" for this purpose include all Fund operating expenses other than management fees and 12b-1 fees and exclude interest, taxes, dividends on short sales, borrowing costs, acquired fund fees and expenses, interest expense relating to short sales, expenses related to class action claims, contingent expenses related to tax reclaim receipts , reorganization expenses and extraordinary expenses. The Expense Limitation Agreement may be terminated with the consent of the Board of Trustees. Fund Adjusted Expense Ratio Adjusted Expense Ratio* , ** 1.25% *AQR Capital Management, LLC ("AQR" or the "Adviser") has contractually agreed to reimburse operating expenses of the Fund at least through April 30, 2027. The Expense Limitation Agreement may be terminated with the consent of the Board of Trustees. **Reflects the Net Expense Ratio adjusted for certain investment related expenses, such as interest expense from borrowings and repurchase agreements and dividend expense from investments on short sales, incurred directly by the Fund. needs to be provided after the --> Documents Fund Literature Fact Sheet Liquid Alts Roundup Regulatory Documents Annual Shareholder Report Semi-Annual Shareholder Report Summary Prospectus Full Prospectus Statement of Additional Information Annual Financial Statements and Other Information Semi-Annual Financial Statements and Other Information Q1 Quarterly Holdings Q3 Quarterly Holdings Proxy Voting Report Fund Reporting Quarterly Review Book locked Monthly Return History Daily Price History Monthly Attribution Report locked UK Investor Tax Reporting Portfolio Holdings Report Subscribe to Selected Documents needs to be provided after the --> Download Selected Documents needs to be provided after the --> Principal Risks: An investment in the Fund is subject to risks, including the possibility that the value of the Fund’s portfolio holdings may fluctuate in response to events specific to the companies in which the Fund invests, as well as economic, political or social events in the U.S. or abroad. Foreign investments often involve special risks not present in U.S. investments that can increase the chances that the Fund will lose money. Emerging markets are riskier than more developed markets because they tend to develop unevenly and may never fully develop. Emerging markets are more likely to experience hyperinflation and currency devaluations, which adversely affect returns to U.S. investors. The use of derivatives, including swaps, forward and futures contracts, and investments in commodities exposes the Fund to additional risks including increased volatility, lack of liquidity, and possible losses greater than the Fund’s initial investment as well as increased transaction costs. The Fund from time to time employs various hedging techniques. The success of the Fund’s hedging strategy will be subject to the investment adviser's ability to correctly assess the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the investments in the portfolio being hedged. This Fund takes short positions in derivative instruments. A short position in a derivative instrument involves the risk of a theoretically unlimited increase in the value of the underlying instrument, which could cause the Fund to suffer a (potentially unlimited) loss. Short sales also involve transaction and other costs that will reduce potential Fund gains and increase potential Fund losses. The Fund is subject to high portfolio turnover risk as a result of frequent trading, and thus, will incur a higher level of brokerage fees and commissions, and cause a higher level of tax liability to shareholders in the Fund. The Fund is not suitable for all investors. An investor considering the Fund should be able to tolerate potentially wide price fluctuations. There are risks involved with investing including the possible loss of principal. Past performance does not guarantee future results. Diversification does not eliminate the risk of experiencing investment losses. This document is intended exclusively for the use of the person to whom it has been delivered by AQR and it is not to be reproduced or redistributed to any other person without AQR’s written consent. Definitions: The ICE BofA U.S. 3-Month Treasury Bill Index tracks the performance of the U.S. dollar-denominated U.S. Treasury Bills issued in the domestic market with a remaining term to final maturity of less than 3 months. Beta is a measure of how sensitive a Fund’s return is to changes in a benchmark index. A beta of greater than 1 indicates a higher sensitivity to benchmark moves, and a beta less than 1 indicates lower sensitivity. Sharpe Ratio is a measure of risk-adjusted performance of a security or investment. Volatility is a statistical measure of the variation in returns for a given security or index. An investment in any of the AQR Funds involves risk, including loss of principal. The value of the Funds’ portfolio holdings may fluctuate in response to events specific to the companies in which the Fund invests, as well as economic, political or social events in the United States or abroad. Please refer to the prospectus for complete information regarding all risks associated with the Funds. An investor considering the Funds should be able to tolerate potentially wide price fluctuations. The Funds are subject to high portfolio turnover risk as a result of frequent trading, and thus, will incur a higher level of brokerage fees and commissions, and cause a higher level of tax liability to shareholders in the Funds. The Funds may attempt to increase its income or total return through the use of securities lending, and they may be subject to the possibility of additional loss as a result of this investment technique. Information about how each Fund voted proxies relating to portfolio securities held during the most recent 12-month period ended June 30 will be available no later than August 31. © AQR Funds are distributed by ALPS Distributors, Inc. AQR Capital Management, LLC is the Investment Manager of the Funds and a federally registered investment adviser. ALPS Distributors is not affiliated with AQR Capital Management. Investors should carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of the Funds before investing. To obtain a prospectus or summary prospectus containing this and other important information, please call 1-866-290-2688 or click here to view or download a prospectus online . Read the prospectus carefully before you invest. View definitions of benchmarks and other terms used here . Diversification does not eliminate risk. Indexes are unmanaged and one cannot invest directly in an index. The information provided herein (including any separate documents that may be accessed through this website) is not directed at any investor or category of investors and is provided solely as general information about our products and services and to otherwise provide general investment education. No information contained herein should be regarded as a suggestion to engage in or refrain from any investment-related course of action as none of AQR Capital Management, LLC ("AQR Capital") nor any of its affiliates is undertaking to provide investment advice, act as an adviser to any plan or entity subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity, or give advice in a fiduciary capacity with respect to the materials presented herein. If you are an individual retirement investor, contact your financial advisor or other fiduciary unrelated to AQR about whether any given investment idea, strategy, product or service described herein may be appropriate for your circumstances. There are risks involved with investing including the possible loss of principal. Past performance does not guarantee future results. ©2026 AQR Funds. All rights reserved. needs to be provided after the --> BACK TO TOP Strategies All Strategies Fund Finder Fund Performance Fund Documents Tax Documents Insights Understanding Active Extension Understanding Factor Investing Understanding Fusion Understanding Liquid Alternatives Download Liquid Alts Roundup Fund News MyAQR Manage My Subscriptions My Favorite Funds My Reading List My Profile Contact Us Cookie Settings AQR.com Australia Funds UCITS Funds Account Access Social Media Disclaimers Privacy Policy Terms of Use Form CRS ©2026 AQR Capital Management, LLC. All rights reserved. You are now leaving AQR Funds . We provide links to third party websites only as a convenience and the inclusion of such links does not imply any endorsement, approval, investigation, verification or monitoring by us of any content or information contained within or accessible from the linked sites. If you choose to visit the linked sites you do so at your own risk, and you will be subject to such sites' terms of use and privacy policies, over which AQR Funds has no control. In no event will AQR Funds be responsible for any information or content within the linked sites or your use of the linked sites. Proceed Cancel needs to be provided after the --> You are about to leave AQR Funds and are being redirected to AQR.com . Please note the AQR.com site may be subject to rules and regulations that may differ significantly from those to which the AQR Funds website is subject and may not be appropriate for use by residents in all jurisdictions. Your access to and use of the AQR.com site will be subject to the applicable terms of use posted on the site. Proceed Cancel needs to be provided after the --> This fund has been saved to your favorite funds. Would you also like to subscribe to receive updates about this fund? YES No, thanks needs to be provided after the --> This fund has been removed from your favorite funds Click below to view all your current favorite funds My Favorite Funds Done needs to be provided after the --> Thank you for subscribing Click below to manage your subscriptions Manage My Subscriptions Done You have been unsubscribed from this fund. Manage My Subscriptions Done needs to be provided after the --> Subscribe to selected documents Enter your email below to subscribe: A valid email address is required. Subscribe Cancel Subscribe to Articles Like This Enter your email below to subscribe to articles like this one: Subscribe Cancel Please contact your AQR representative or email USWealthAnalysts@aqr.com to request a copy of the monthly performance attribution report. Subscribe to this fund Enter your email below to subscribe to this fund: A valid email address is required. Subscribe Cancel Manage Subscriptions Enter your email below to view and manage your subscriptions: A valid email address is required. Manage My Subscriptions Cancel You have logged in successfully. Ok needs to be provided after the --> You need an Account to Access this Document Click below to login or register for a new account Login or Register Cancel needs to be provided after the --> Password changed successfully Ok needs to be provided after the --> Account activated successfully Ok needs to be provided after the --> The following users will be @status: Email First Name Last Name Institution City There is no record selected. Confirm Cancel needs to be provided after the --> 